We said that there are lots of things
that take a lot of time in JavaScript.
One of them that is
particularly relevant and
punny for
our dog mission today is fetching data.
And like this, little dogs,
we need dog or whatever it is.
It is using a computer
to do what it wants.
And that's what we're gonna do.
We are gonna use the computer,
we’re gonna tell JavaScript to make
the browser fetch the data that we need.
So let’s talk about how we
get data from the Internet.
[LAUGH] URLs, we’ve seen them,
we’ve used them,
I've told you to go to them
multiple times, so far.
They point to certain
resources on the web.
So for example this one points to,
it's cut off, but
it points to a JPEG file
an image of a bluetick dog breed.
I don't know that breed, but
apparently it looks like that it's cute,
I think, anyway, so images or,
web pages or whatever we know URLs.
And when we're writing code,
especially JavaScript
web development code,
we also work with a lot of URLs.
That are pointed to not maybe like
a webpage or an image or something that we
care about, but even just data, just some
data that we care about some information.
And API's or
application programming interfaces,
are services that are exposing
a whole bunch of data at certain URLs.
So, in web development, in JavaScript
coding out there in the world.
We end up doing a lot of finding data
that we care about, or that we need for
our program to work, from somewhere
else out there on the web like an API.
So for example,
the very fun dog.ceo website has
a dog API that not only serves
up cute dog pictures, but
also serves up some information about for
example breeds.
In fact, that's where I got
all of that information for
that big long breeds array.
And one of the things that we can do,
APIs usually have a certain
structure that the API developer.
Or the company, or what have you that
maintains the API will document and
they'll tell you what
the structure of their URLs is.
But in the case of dog ceo,
I can find data that I care about,
like let's say a list of all
of the types of hound breeds,
by going to the URL,
dog.ceo/api/breed/hound/list.
And that is what's called
often an end point of an API.
Meaning a URL within the API which is
a whole big set of different URLs,
an endpoint is one of those URLs
that gives me a particular usually
it's called a resource.
In this case the resource
that I care about is a little
JavaScript object,
that has some information about,
in this case, a list, or
an array of types of hounds.
So, and if we want to check in our
browser, I mean in our browser,
we're used to going to web pages and
URLs all the time.
That's not what I meant to copy.
We can go to an API endpoint and
see what data that API returns.
And depending on what browser you're
in this might look different.
But if you can see here, when I enter
dog.ceo/api/breeds/hounds/list,
Firefox displays
the information in this way.
It shows me that the resource at
this endpoint is a JSON object,
JSON stands for
JavaScript Object Notation.
It's basically just a convention for
how we can represent objects that are very
similar to the objects we've been
working with this whole time.
So that we can kind of save
that object as a piece of
text that I can then send across the wire.
And my browser knows how to read that,
and parse it out and see that we've got
an array in our message property that
has seven different breed strings in it.
So suffice it to say, that so far we've
been working with data that we either
hard coded,
we wrote it ourselves in our program.
Or maybe we got it as the output
of some built in function,
like document.queryselector or
something like that.
But sometimes we need data from elsewhere,
on the web, and
we can do that by accessing these
URLs that are API endpoints.
Cool, so [COUGH].
>> Could you do like a map or a filter
from an array to filter it further or.
>> So, once we've got a resource
from an API endpoint,
once you've got a chunk of data, in this
case, an object that looks like this.
And we have this array
in our message property,
once we've got it into our program,
we can do whatever we want with it.
We can work with it,
we can assign it to a variable,
we can work with the same way we've
been working with our hard coded arrays.
Or with our arrays that are returned
from our built in functions and method.
So, once it's in our JavaScript code,
I should say once it's in
our JavaScript program,
once it's been dynamically pulled in by
JavaScript, we can do whatever we want.
We can filter it, we can map it,
we can push to it, we can pop from it,
we can do whatever we want.
If it's an array,
we can push and pop from it.
Sometimes it's an object,
so we can drill down into,
property.property.property.property.
We can do whatever we want once we have it
as an object in our running
JavaScript program.
And that is exactly what we need to do.
We need to tell JavaScript to go get some
data and pull it into our program, so
that we can work with it.
And the way that we can do that
is through a built in function,
or it's often called an API itself.
API is one of these very confusingly,
one of these terms that's used to
mean a lot of different things.
Or we say it's overloaded, the same way
that our plus operator is used to do a lot
of different things, it's overloaded,
so is the term API [LAUGH].
But in this case, the Fetch API
is also something you might hear.
But suffice it to say,
let's say the fetch built in function,
lets us load data from somewhere
on the internet using JavaScript.
And what we very commonly do with
fetch is we load data from API's.
We load data we care about, for example,
all of the hounds, from an API endpoint.
We do this a lot as JavaScript developers,
and not only API data, but
other stuff we can get to.
Like we could get a whole HTML page and
work with it for example.
But in this case we're gonna focus on
pulling objects off of the interwebs.